
Guido van rossum in 89-1991
dynamically typed oop language and support functional approach
interpreted and high level language
features=simple,platform independent(kissi bhi platform pe likh skte ho),provides big language support
db , web applications , data science , machine learning , complex app , easy to integrate with any
language.
modules : dusre ka code borrow krne mai use hota hai , kissi aur ne code likha hai aur use hum apne 
program mai use kr skte hai! 
we have two modules:
built in : already python ke sath aate hai
external modules: dusre ka code use kro
pip: Preferred Installer Program
in python evrything is object
list,dict,tuple
Ordered Collection is the one in which the position of each element is fixed. 
Example: List, strings, Tuples. Unordered Collection is the one in which position of 
each element is not fixed i.e., the order of all the elements are not maintained. 
Example: Sets, Dictionaries.
lower to higher level mai data types apne aap typecast ho jaate hai .. usse impplicit typecasting
bolte hai.
1. strings are immutable.
2. any method on string takes a copy of the object.
3.string.upper will convert the string to an upper case
4.string.lower will convert the string to lower case
5. string.rstrip("character") will strip the trailing characters of string 
6.string.replace("character/alphabets", new character/alphabets") will replace the existing specified alphabets in string with new ones
7. string.split splits the string at the given alphabet and returns a list of items
8.string.capitalize capitalizes the first character of the word and turns rest all the characters to lower case
9.string.center center aligns the string by adding the number of spaces mentioned in parenthesis
10. string.count counts the total number of a particular set of characters in a string
11. string.endswith checks whether a string ends with the specific characters
12.string.find finds the first occurrence of a given value and return the index value of the position of that occurrence
13.string.index finds the occurrence of a given value and returns the index value of the position however, if it is unable to find it will give an error causing the program to exit
14.string.isalnum checks to find if string is alphanumeric and returns true or false
15.string.isalpha checks if there are any numbers in the string
16.string.islower checks if there are only lower aphabets in the string
17. string.isprintable checks if all the characters are printable in the string(non printable characters e.g \n)
18 string.isspace checks if any space bar has been used in the string
19.string.istitle The istitile() returns True only if the first letter of each word of the string is capitalized, else 20. string.isupper checks if all characters are uppercase in a string
21. string.startswith checks if a string starts with a given value
22. string.swapcase convert uppercase to lowercase and vice versa in a string
23.string.title converts first character of all the words in the sentence to capital
